.Foreword

ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation
of national standards bodies (ISO member bodies). The work of preparing
International Standards is normally carried out through ISO technical committees.
Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International
organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take
part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization.

The procedures used to develop this document and those intended for its further
maintenance are described in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1. In particular the
different approval criteria needed for the different types of ISO documents should
be noted. This document was drafted in accordance with the editorial rules of the
ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2 (see
http://www.iso.org/directives[www.iso.org/directives]).

ISO draws attention to the possibility that the implementation of this document may
involve the use of (a) patent(s). ISO takes no position concerning the evidence,
validity or applicability of any claimed patent rights in respect thereof. As of
the date of publication of this document, ISO had not received notice of (a)
patent(s) which may be required to implement this document. However, implementers
are cautioned that this may not represent the latest information, which may be
obtained from the patent database available at
http://www.iso.org/patents[www.iso.org/patents]. ISO shall not be held responsible
for identifying any or all such patent rights.

Any trade name used in this document is information given for the convenience of
users and does not constitute an endorsement.

For an explanation of the voluntary nature of standards, the meaning of ISO
specific terms and expressions related to conformity assessment, as well as
information about ISO's adherence to the World Trade Organization (WTO) principles
in the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT), see
http://www.iso.org/iso/foreword.html[www.iso.org/iso/foreword.html].

// there should probably be some comment here (e.g. "Template text for all committees") because this part is selected
[reviewer=ISO]
****
****

This document was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC
{technical-committee-number}, _{technical-committee}_, Subcommittee
{subcommittee-type} {subcommittee-number}, _{subcommittee}_.

A list of all parts in the ISO 17301 series can be found on the
http://www.iso.org[ISO website].

Any feedback or questions on this document should be directed to the user's
national standards body. A complete listing of these bodies can be found at
http://www.iso.org/members.html[www.iso.org/members.html].

[reviewer=ISO]
****
* Information regarding the edition and changes is not included here. It is
included in the International Standard.
****
