== Introduction

This document was developed in response to worldwide demand for minimum
specifications for rice traded internationally, since most commercial bulks of
grain, which have not been screened or aspirated, contain a proportion of other
grains, weed seeds, chaff, straw, stones, sand, etc. The vegetable materials can
have physical and biological properties which differ from those of the main
constituent and can therefore affect the storage behaviour.

Rice is a permanent host to a considerable microflora; most of these
microorganisms are cosmopolitan, the majority are innocuous, but some produce
harmful by-products. Microflora communities present on freshly harvested rice
include many types of bacteria, moulds and yeasts. While the rice is ripening
and its moisture content is falling, the number of field microorganisms, mainly
bacteria, diminishes. When the rice is harvested, it is invaded by storage
microorganisms and the field microflora gradually dies out. If the mass fraction
of moisture (formerly expressed as moisture content) is less than 18 %, the
microflora does not multiply, whereas above 18 % it does so rapidly. Thus, at
harvest, the qualitative and the quantitative composition of the microflora
depends more upon ecological factors than upon the variety of the rice. During
transport and storage, additions to the microfloral population occur.
Microorganisms on the rice at harvest tend to die out during storage and are
replaced by microorganisms adapted to storage conditions.

Storage losses have been estimated as being an average of 5 %, and as much as 30
%, especially in countries with climates favourable to the rapid development of
agents of deterioration and where storage techniques are poorly developed, such
as developing countries in the damp tropics. The magnitude of these figures
highlights the need to promote throughout the world a rapid improvement in
techniques of conservation.


The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) draws attention to the
fact that it is claimed that compliance with this document may involve the use
of a patent concerning sample dividers given in <<AnnexA>> and shown in
<<figureA-1>>.

ISO takes no position concerning the evidence, validity and scope of this patent
right.

The holder of this patent right has assured ISO that he/she is willing to
negotiate licences under reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions
with applicants throughout the world. In this respect, the statement of the
holder of this patent right is registered with ISO. Information may be obtained
from:

[align=left]
Vache Equipment +
Fictitious +
World +
mailto:gehf@vacheequipment.fic[]

Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document
may be the subject of patent rights other than those identified above. ISO shall
not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.

