== Test methods

=== Moisture content

Determine the mass fraction of moisture in accordance with the method specified
in <<ISO712>>.

=== Waxy rice content

Determine the mass fraction of waxy rice. <<AnnexB>> gives an example of a
suitable method.

=== Nitrogen content and crude protein content

Determine the nitrogen content and crude protein content in accordance with
either <<ISO16634,clause=9>>, or <<ISO20483>>. For details on the determination
of protein content using the Kjeldahl method, see Reference <<ref12>> in the
Bibliography. For details concerning the use of the Dumas method, see References
<<ref10>> and <<ref16>>.

Calculate the crude protein content of the dry product by multiplying the value
of the nitrogen content by the conversion factor specified in
<<ISO20483,annex=C;and!table=C.1>>, that is adapted to the type of cereals or
pulses <<ref13,fn>><<ref14,fn>> and to their use.

=== Gelatinization time

Determine the gelatinization time, stem:[t_90], for rice kernels during cooking.
An example of a typical curve is given in <<figureC-1>>. Three typical stages of
gelatinization are shown in <<figureC-2>>.

Report the results as specified in <<clause7>>.

=== Husked rice yield

==== Determination

CAUTION: Only use paddy or parboiled rice for the determination of husked rice
yield.

Determine the husked rice yield in accordance with <<ISO6646>>.

==== Precision

===== Interlaboratory test

The results of an interlaboratory test are given in <<AnnexD>> for information

===== Repeatability

The absolute difference between two independent single test results, obtained
using the same method on identical test material in the same laboratory by the
same operator using the same equipment within a short interval of time, shall
not exceed the arithmetic mean of the values for stem:[r] obtained from the
interlaboratory study for husked rice in more than 5 % of cases:

[stem%unnumbered]
++++
r = 1 %
++++

where

stem:[r]:: is the repeatability limit.

===== Reproducibility

The absolute difference between two single test results, obtained using the same
method on identical test material in different laboratories by different
operators using different equipment, shall not exceed the arithmetic mean of the
values for stem:[R] obtained from the interlaboratory study in more than 5 % of
cases:

[stem%unnumbered]
++++
R = 3 %
++++

where

stem:[R]:: is the reproducibility limit.

